heir situation become more or less enduring than their
nature warrants, but never are they eternal when they contain contrary
qualities; for their matter is an immediate source of contrariety,
so that if it involves locality they show change of situation, if
quantity, increase and diminution, while if it involves qualitative
affection we find alteration of character.

                                 4

  We find that a superior immunity from decay attaches neither to
the largest animals (the horse has shorter life than man) nor to those
that are small (for most insects live but for a year). Nor are
plants as a whole less liable to perish than animals (many plants
are annuals), nor have sanguineous animals the pre-eminence (for the
bee is longer-lived than certain sanguineous animals). Neither is it
the bloodless animals that live longest (for molluscs live only a
year, though bloodless), nor terrestrial organisms (there are both
plants and terrestrial animals of which a single year is the
period), nor the occupants of the sea (for there we find the
crustaceans and the molluscs, which are short-lived).

  Speaking generally, the longest-lived things occur among the plants,
e.g. the date-palm. Next in order we find them among the sanguineous
animals rather than among the bloodless, and among those with feet
rather than among the denizens of the water. Hence, taking these two
characters together, the longest-lived animals fall among
sanguineous animals which have feet, e.g. man and elephant. As a
matter of fact also it is a general rule that the larger live longer
than the smaller, for the other long-lived animals too happen to be of
a large size, as are also those I have mentioned.

                                 5

  The following considerations may enable us to understand the reasons
for all these facts. We must remember that an animal is by nature
humid and warm, and to live is to be of such a constitution, while old
age is dry and cold, and so is a corpse. This is plain to observation.
But the material constituting the bodies of all things consists of the
following-the hot and the cold, the dry and the moist. Hence when they
age they must become dry, and therefore the fluid in them requires
to be not easily dried up. Thus we explain why fat things are not
liable to decay. The reason is that they contain air; now air
relatively to the other elements is fire, and fire never becomes
corrupted.

  Again the humid element in animals must not be small in quantity,
for a small quantity is easily dried up. This is why both plants and
animals that are large are, as a general rule, longer-lived than the
rest, as was said before; it is to be expected that the larger
should contain more moisture. But it is not merely this that makes
them longer lived; for the cause is twofold, to wit, the quality as
well as the quantity of the fluid. Hence the moisture must be not only
great in amount but also warm, in order to be neithe