                                     350 BC

                       ON LONGEVITY AND SHORTNESS OF LIFE

                                  by Aristotle

                          translated by G. R. T. Ross

                                 1

  THE reasons for some animals being long-lived and others
short-lived, and, in a word, causes of the length and brevity of
life call for investigation.

  The necessary beginning to our inquiry is a statement of the
difficulties about these points. For it is not clear whether in
animals and plants universally it is a single or diverse cause that
makes some to be long-lived, others short-lived. Plants too have in
some cases a long life, while in others it lasts but for a year.

  Further, in a natural structure are longevity and a sound
constitution coincident, or is shortness of life independent of
unhealthiness? Perhaps in the case of certain maladies a diseased
state of the body and shortness of life are interchangeable, while
in the case of others ill-health is perfectly compatible with long
life.

  Of sleep and waking we have already treated; about life and death we
shall speak later on, and likewise about health and disease, in so far
as it belongs to the science of nature to do so. But at present we
have to investigate the causes of some creatures being long-lived, and
others short-lived. We find this distinction affecting not only entire
genera opposed as wholes to one another, but applying also to
contrasted sets of individuals within the same species. As an instance
of the difference applying to the genus I give man and horse (for
mankind has a longer life than the horse), while within the species
there is the difference between man and man; for of men also some
are long-lived, others short-lived, differing from each other in
respect of the different regions in which they dwell. Races inhabiting
warm countries have longer life, those living in a cold climate live a
shorter time. Likewise there are similar differences among individuals
occupying the same locality.

                                 2

  In order to find premisses for our argument, we must answer the
question, What is that which, in natural objects, makes them easily
destroyed, or the reverse? Since fire and water, and whatsoever is
akin thereto, do not possess identical powers they are reciprocal
causes of generation and decay. Hence it is natural to infer that
everything else arising from them and composed of them should share in
the same nature, in all cases where things are not, like a house, a
composite unity formed by the synthesis of many things.

  In other matters a different account must be given; for in many
things their mode of dissolution is something peculiar to
themselves, e.g. in knowledge and health and disease. These pass
away even though the medium in which they are found is not destroyed
but continues to exist; for example, take the termination of
ignorance, which is recollection o