any rules of art: they are simply inspired to utter that to
which the Muse impels them, and that only; and when inspired, one of
them will make dithyrambs, another hymns of praise, another choral
strains, another epic or iambic verses- and he who is good at one is
not good any other kind of verse: for not by art does the poet sing,
but by power divine. Had he learned by rules of art, he would have
known how to speak not of one theme only, but of all; and therefore
God takes away the minds of poets, and uses them as his ministers,
as he also uses diviners and holy prophets, in order that we who
hear them may know them to be speaking not of themselves who utter
these priceless words in a state of unconsciousness, but that God
himself is the speaker, and that through them he is conversing with
us. And Tynnichus the Chalcidian affords a striking instance of what I
am saying: he wrote nothing that any one would care to remember but
the famous paean which; in every one's mouth, one of the finest
poems ever written, simply an invention of the Muses, as he himself
says. For in this way, the God would seem to indicate to us and not
allow us to doubt that these beautiful poems are not human, or the
work of man, but divine and the work of God; and that the poets are
only the interpreters of the Gods by whom they are severally
possessed. Was not this the lesson which the God intended to teach
when by the mouth of the worst of poets he sang the best of songs?
Am I not right, Ion?

  Ion. Yes, indeed, Socrates, I feel that you are; for your words
touch my soul, and I am persuaded that good poets by a divine
inspiration interpret the things of the Gods to us.

  Soc. And you rhapsodists are the interpreters of the poets?

  Ion. There again you are right.

  Soc. Then you are the interpreters of interpreters?

  Ion. Precisely.

  Soc. I wish you would frankly tell me, Ion, what I am going to ask
of you: When you produce the greatest effect upon the audience in
the recitation of some striking passage, such as the apparition of
Odysseus leaping forth on the floor, recognized by the suitors and
casting his arrows at his feet, or the description of Achilles rushing
at Hector, or the sorrows of Andromache, Hecuba, or Priam,- are you in
your right mind? Are you not carried out of yourself, and does not
your soul in an ecstasy seem to be among the persons or places of
which you are speaking, whether they are in Ithaca or in Troy or
whatever may be the scene of the poem?

  Ion. That proof strikes home to me, Socrates. For I must frankly
confess that at the tale of pity, my eyes are filled with tears, and
when I speak of horrors, my hair stands on end and my heart throbs.

  Soc. Well, Ion, and what are we to say of a man who at a sacrifice
or festival, when he is dressed in holiday attire and has golden
crowns upon his head, of which nobody has robbed him, appears sweeping
or panic-stricken in the presence of more than twenty thousand
friendly faces, when there is no one despoiling or wronging him;- is
he in his right mind or is he not?

  Ion. No indeed, Socrates, I must say that, strictly speaking, he
is not in his right mind.

  Soc. And are you aware that you produce similar effects on most
spectators?

  Ion. Only too well; for I look down upon them from the stage, and
behold the various emotions of pity, wonder, sternness, stamped upon
their countenances when I am speaking: and I am obliged to give my
very best attenti