        6

  It is amongst the plants that we find the longest life-more than
among the animals, for, in the first place, they are less watery and
hence less easily frozen. Further they have an oiliness and a
viscosity which makes them retain their moisture in a form not
easily dried up, even though they are dry and earthy.

  But we must discover the reason why trees are of an enduring
constitution, for it is peculiar to them and is not found in any
animals except the insects.

  Plants continually renew themselves and hence last for a long
time. New shoots continually come and the others grow old, and with
the roots the same thing happens. But both processes do not occur
together. Rather it happens that at one time the trunk and the
branches alone die and new ones grow up beside them, and it is only
when this has taken place that the fresh roots spring from the
surviving part. Thus it continues, one part dying and the other
growing, and hence also it lives a long time.

  There is a similarity, as has been already said, between plants
and insects, for they live, though divided, and two or more may be
derived from a single one. Insects, however, though managing to
live, are not able to do so long, for they do not possess organs;
nor can the principle resident in each of the separated parts create
organs. In the case of a plant, however, it can do so; every part of a
plant contains potentially both root and stem. Hence it is from this
source that issues that continued growth when one part is renewed
and the other grows old; it is practically a case of longevity. The
taking of slips furnishes a similar instance, for we might say that,
in a way, when we take a slip the same thing happens; the shoot cut
off is part of the plant. Thus in taking slips this perpetuation of
life occurs though their connexion with the plant is severed, but in
the former case it is the continuity that is operative. The reason
is that the life principle potentially belonging to them is present in
every part.

  Identical phenomena are found both in plants and in animals. For
in animals the males are, in general, the longer-lived. They have
their upper parts larger than the lower (the male is more of the dwarf
type of build than the female), and it is in the upper part that
warmth resides, in the lower cold. In plants also those with great
heads are longer-lived, and such are those that are not annual but
of the tree-type, for the roots are the head and upper part of a
plant, and among the annuals growth occurs in the direction of their
lower parts and the fruit.

  These matters however will be specially investigated in the work
On Plants. But this is our account of the reasons for the duration
of life and for short life in animals. It remains for us to discuss
youth and age, and life and death. To come to a definite understanding
about these matters would complete our course of study on animals.

                                   -THE END-
.
