on to them; for if I make them cry I myself shall
laugh, and if I make them laugh I myself shall cry when the time of
payment arrives.

  Soc. Do you know that the spectator is the last of the rings
which, as I am saying, receive the power of the original magnet from
one another? The rhapsode like yourself and the actor are intermediate
links, and the poet himself is the first of them. Through all these
the God sways the souls of men in any direction which he pleases,
and makes one man hang down from another. Thus there is a vast chain
of dancers and masters and undermasters of choruses, who are
suspended, as if from the stone, at the side of the rings which hang
down from the Muse. And every poet has some Muse from whom he is
suspended, and by whom he is said to be possessed, which is nearly the
same thing; for he is taken hold of. And from these first rings, which
are the poets, depend others, some deriving their inspiration from
Orpheus, others from Musaeus; but the greater number are possessed and
held by Homer. Of whom, Ion, you are one, and are possessed by
Homer; and when any one repeats the words of another poet you go to
sleep, and know not what to say; but when any one recites a strain
of Homer you wake up in a moment, and your soul leaps within you,
and you have plenty to say; for not by art or knowledge about Homer do
you say what you say, but by divine inspiration and by possession;
just as the Corybantian revellers too have a quick perception of
that strain only which is appropriated to the God by whom they are
possessed, and have plenty of dances and words for that, but take no
heed of any other. And you, Ion, when the name of Homer is mentioned
have plenty to say, and have nothing to say of others. You ask, "Why
is this?" The answer is that you praise Homer not by art but by divine
inspiration.

  Ion. That is good, Socrates; and yet I doubt whether you will ever
have eloquence enough to persuade me that I praise Homer only when I
am mad and possessed; and if you could hear me speak of him I am
sure you would never think this to be the case.

  Soc. I should like very much to hear you, but not until you have
answered a question which I have to ask. On what part of Homer do
you speak well?- not surely about every part.

  Ion. There is no part, Socrates, about which I do not speak well
of that I can assure you.

  Soc. Surely not about things in Homer of which you have no
knowledge?

  Ion. And what is there in Homer of which I have no knowledge?

  Soc. Why, does not Homer speak in many passages about arts? For
example, about driving; if I can only remember the lines I will repeat
them.

  Ion. I remember, and will repeat them.

  Soc. Tell me then, what Nestor says to Antilochus, his son, where he
bids him be careful of the turn at the horse-race in honour of
Patroclus.

  Ion. He says:

  Bend gently in the polished chariot to the left of them, and urge
the horse on the right hand with whip and voice; and slacken the rein.
And when you are at the goal, let the left horse draw near, yet so
that the nave of the well-wrought wheel may not even seem to touch the
extremity; and avoid catching the stone.

  Soc. Enough. Now, Ion, will the charioteer or the physician be the
better judge of the propriety of these lines?

  Ion. The charioteer, clearly.

  Soc. And will the reason be that this is his art, or will there be
any other reason?

  Ion. No, that will be the reason.

  Soc. And every a