ou answer?

  Ion. I should reply, by my skill as a horseman.

  Soc. And if you judged of performers on the lyre, you would admit
that you judged of them as a performer on the lyre, and not as a
horseman?

  Ion. Yes.

  Soc. And in judging of the general's art, do you judge of it as a
general or a rhapsode?

  Ion. To me there appears to be no difference between them.

  Soc. What do you mean? Do you mean to say that the art of the
rhapsode and of the general is the same?

  Ion. Yes, one and the same.

  Soc. Then he who is a good rhapsode is also a good general?

  Ion. Certainly, Socrates.

  Soc. And he who is a good general is also a good rhapsode?

  Ion. No; I do not say that.

  Soc. But you do say that he who is a good rhapsode is also a good
general.

  Ion. Certainly.

  Soc. And you are the best of Hellenic rhapsodes?

  Ion. Far the best, Socrates.

  Soc. And are you the best general, Ion?

  Ion. To be sure, Socrates; and Homer was my master.

  Soc. But then, Ion, what in the name of goodness can be the reason
why you, who are the best of generals as well as the best of rhapsodes
in all Hellas, go about as a rhapsode when you might be a general?
Do you think that the Hellenes want a rhapsode with his golden
crown, and do not want a general?

  Ion. Why, Socrates, the reason is, that my countrymen, the
Ephesians, are the servants and soldiers of Athens, and do not need
a general; and you and Sparta are not likely to have me, for you think
that you have enough generals of your own.

  Soc. My good Ion, did you never hear of Apollodorus of Cyzicus?

  Ion. Who may he be?

  Soc. One who, though a foreigner, has often been chosen their
general by the Athenians: and there is Phanosthenes of Andros, and
Heraclides of Clazomenae, whom they have also appointed to the command
of their armies and to other offices, although aliens, after they
had shown their merit. And will they not choose Ion the Ephesian to be
their general, and honour him, if he prove himself worthy? Were not
the Ephesians originally Athenians, and Ephesus is no mean city?
But, indeed, Ion, if you are correct in saying that by art and
knowledge you are able to praise Homer, you do not deal fairly with
me, and after all your professions of knowing many, glorious things
about Homer, and promises that you would exhibit them, you are only
a deceiver, and so far from exhibiting the art of which you are a
master, will not, even after my repeated entreaties, explain to me the
nature of it. You have literally as many forms as Proteus; and now you
go all manner of ways, twisting and turning, and, like Proteus, become
all manner of people at once, and at last slip away from me in the
disguise of a general, in order that you may escape exhibiting your
Homeric lore. And if you have art, then, as I was saying, in
falsifying your promise that you would exhibit Homer, you are not
dealing fairly with me. But if, as I believe, you have no art, but
speak all these beautiful words about Homer unconsciously under his
inspiring influence, then I acquit you of dishonesty, and shall only
say that you are inspired. Which do you prefer to be thought,
dishonest or inspired?

  Ion. There is a great difference, Socrates, between the two
alternatives; and inspiration is by far the nobler.

  Soc. Then, Ion, I shall assume the nobler alternative; and attribute
to you in your praises of Homer inspiration, and not art.

                          -THE END-
.
