llences and defects of Polygnotus the son of Aglaophon, but
incapable of criticizing other painters; and when the work of any
other painter was produced, went to sleep and was at a loss, and had
no ideas; but when he had to give his opinion about Polygnotus, or
whoever the painter might be, and about him only, woke up and was
attentive and had plenty to say?

  Ion. No indeed, I have never known such a person.

  Soc. Or did you ever know of any one in sculpture, who was skilful
in expounding the merits of Daedalus the son of Metion, or of Epeius
the son of Panopeus, or of Theodorus the Samian, or of any
individual sculptor; but when the works of sculptors in general were
produced, was at a loss and went to sleep and had nothing to say?

  Ion. No indeed; no more than the other.

  Soc. And if I am not mistaken, you never met with any one among
flute-players or harp- players or singers to the harp or rhapsodes who
was able to discourse of Olympus or Thamyras or Orpheus, or Phemius
the rhapsode of Ithaca, but was at a loss when he came to speak of Ion
of Ephesus, and had no notion of his merits or defects?

  Ion. I cannot deny what you say, Socrates. Nevertheless I am
conscious in my own self, and the world agrees with me in thinking
that I do speak better and have more to say about Homer than any other
man. But I do not speak equally well about others- tell me the
reason of this.

  Soc. I perceive, Ion; and I will proceed to explain to you what I
imagine to be the reason of this. The gift which you possess of
speaking excellently about Homer is not an art, but, as I was just
saying, an inspiration; there is a divinity moving you, like that
contained in the stone which Euripides calls a magnet, but which is
commonly known as the stone of Heraclea. This stone not only
attracts iron rings, but also imparts to them a similar power of
attracting other rings; and sometimes you may see a number of pieces
of iron and rings suspended from one another so as to form quite a
long chain: and all of them derive their power of suspension from
the original stone. In like manner the Muse first of all inspires
men herself; and from these inspired persons a chain of other
persons is suspended, who take the inspiration. For all good poets,
epic as well as lyric, compose their beautiful poems not by art, but
because they are inspired and possessed. And as the Corybantian
revellers when they dance are not in their right mind, so the lyric
poets are not in their right mind when they are composing their
beautiful strains: but when falling under the power of music and metre
they are inspired and possessed; like Bacchic maidens who draw milk
and honey from the rivers when they are under the influence of
Dionysus but not when they are in their right mind. And the soul of
the lyric poet does the same, as they themselves say; for they tell us
that they bring songs from honeyed fountains, culling them out of
the gardens and dells of the Muses; they, like the bees, winging their
way from flower to flower. And this is true. For the poet is a light
and winged and holy thing, and there is no invention in him until he
has been inspired and is out of his senses, and the mind is no
longer in him: when he has not attained to this state, he is powerless
and is unable to utter his oracles.

  Many are the noble words in which poets speak concerning the actions
of men; but like yourself when speaking about Homer, they do not speak
of them by 